# Content-Based Image Retrieval (CBIR) Using Barcode

-  # Description 
The  project is Content-Based Image Retrieval (CBIR), which is a real-world problem. For this project, the image retrieval will search the contents using barcodes. Given a MNIST folder containing a set of handwritten digits from 0 to 9, with ten images per digit, totalling to 100 images, a barcode will be generated to present each image. Using the barcode, a searching algorithm will compare the query image with other images and find the best match. The retrieval accuracy will be reported by calculating the hit ratio (%). Afterwards, Big-O complexity analysis will be conducted for the barcode generator algorithm and the search algorithm. 

- # Overall Obervation:
Barcosdes were  generated  for each image.Query image barcodes were used to compare other barcodes, looking for the best searched image in our dataset, by calculating the Hamming distance. The lowest Hamming distance was the one matched with the query image. After this, the experiment took place and a few reports of the retrieved accuracy were performed. The Big-O complexity analysis was completed for the Barcode Generator and the Search Algorithm. It was found that the time complexity for both algorithms were O(n^2). Some problems that were encountered were regarding the code running, but were overcome by carefully looking at any syntax errors or any implementation errors when creating the algorithms. Improvements that could have been made were increasing the number of projections, using integer projections instead of binary barcodes, and/or splitting the image to sub images and creating local and global barcodes. These would have increased the retrieval accuracy and would have given better results
